---
layout: post
title: linux常用命令
categories: linux
tags:  linux command
---

* content
{:toc}

> 我的技术博客，主要是记载看过的书以及对写的好的博客文章的搬运整理，方便自己他人查看，也方便别人指出我文章中的错误，达到一起学习的目的。
> 技术永无止境

本文主要是对常用linux命令汇总 [收集常用的linux命令的网站](http://man.linuxde.net/)



# guava

用户手册
Guava项目包含了多项应用于Java项目的Google核心库，如collections, caching, primitives support, concurrency libraries, common annotations, string processing, I/O, 等等。每个工具都是每天被google工程师使用于生产服务。

但是通过Javadoc搜索并不是我们去学习怎么充分利用库的高效方法。在这里，我们尝试提供关于Guava一些最有名和最有用的特性相关的可读和愉悦的解释

* 基本工具: 让使用Java更加友善。
    * 使用和避免null: null可能模棱两可，可能导致令人疑惑的错误，和有时候只是普通的不友善。很多Guava工具在null时，会拒绝和快速失败，而不是不假思索的接受他们。
    * 

* Basic utilities: Make using the Java language more pleasant.
    * Using and avoiding null: null can be ambiguous, can cause confusing errors, and is sometimes just plain unpleasant. Many Guava utilities reject and fail fast on nulls, rather than accepting them blindly.
    * Preconditions: Test preconditions for your methods more easily.
    * Common object methods: Simplify implementing Object methods, like hashCode() and toString().
* Ordering: Guava's powerful "fluent Comparator" class.
* Throwables: Simplify propagating and examining exceptions and errors.

# Collections: Guava's extensions to the JDK collections ecosystem. These are some of the most mature and popular parts of Guava.

* Immutable collections, for defensive programming, constant collections, and improved efficiency.
* New collection types, for use cases that the JDK collections don't address as well as they could: multisets, multimaps, tables, bidirectional maps, and more.
* Powerful collection utilities, for common operations not provided in java.util.Collections.
* Extension utilities: writing a Collection decorator? Implementing Iterator? We can make that easier.
# Graphs: a library for modeling graph-structured data, that is, entities and the relationships between them. Key features include:

* Graph: a graph whose edges are anonymous entities with no identity or information of their own.
* ValueGraph: a graph whose edges have associated non-unique values.
* Network: a graph whose edges are unique objects.
* Support for graphs that are mutable and immutable, directed and undirected, and several other properties.
# Caches: Local caching, done right, and supporting a wide variety of expiration behaviors.
# Functional idioms: Used sparingly, Guava's functional idioms can significantly simplify code.
# Concurrency: Powerful, simple abstractions to make it easier to write correct concurrent code.
* ListenableFuture: Futures, with callbacks when they are finished.
* Service: Things that start up and shut down, taking care of the difficult state logic for you.
# Strings: A few extremely useful string utilities: splitting, joining, padding, and more.
# Primitives: operations on primitive types, like int and char, not provided by the JDK, including unsigned variants for some types.
# Ranges: Guava's powerful API for dealing with ranges on Comparable types, both continuous and discrete.
# I/O: Simplified I/O operations, especially on whole I/O streams and files, for Java 5 and 6.
# Hashing: Tools for more sophisticated hashes than what's provided by Object.hashCode(), including Bloom filters.
# EventBus: Publish-subscribe-style communication between components without requiring the components to explicitly register with one another.
# Math: Optimized, thoroughly tested math utilities not provided by the JDK.
# Reflection: Guava utilities for Java's reflective capabilities.
# Tips: Getting your application working the way you want it to with Guava.
* Philosophy: what Guava is and isn't, and our goals.
* Using Guava in your build, with build systems including Maven, Gradle, and more.
* Using ProGuard to avoid bundling parts of Guava you don't use with your JAR.
* Apache Commons equivalents, helping you translate code from using Apache Commons Collections.
* Compatibility, details between Guava versions.
Idea Graveyard, feature requests that have been conclusively rejected.
Friends, open-source projects we like and admire.
HowToContribute, how to contribute to Guava.

